### Morig: Motion-Aware Rigging of Character Meshes from Point Clouds

We present MoRig, a method that automatically rigs character meshes driven by single-view point cloud streams capturing the motion of performing characters. Our method is also able to animate the 3D meshes according to the captured point cloud motion. MoRig’s neural network encodes motion cues from the point clouds into features that are informative about the articulated parts of the performing character. These motion-aware features guide the inference of an appropriate skeletal rig for the input mesh, which is then animated based on the point cloud motion. Our method can rig and animate diverse characters, including humanoids, quadrupeds, and toys with varying articulation. It accounts for occluded regions in the point clouds and mismatches in the part proportions between the input mesh and captured character. Compared to other rigging approaches that ignore motion cues, MoRig produces more accurate rigs, well-suited for re-targeting motion from captured characters.

- [zhan-xu/MoRig (github.com)](https://github.com/zhan-xu/MoRig)



### Text2Human: Text-Driven Controllable Human Image Generation

Generating high-quality and diverse human images is an important yet challenging task in vision and graphics. However, existing generative models often fall short under the high diversity of clothing shapes and textures. Furthermore, the generation process is even desired to be intuitively controllable for layman users. In this work, we present a text-driven controllable framework, Text2Human, for a high-quality and diverse human generation. We synthesize full-body human images starting from a given human pose with two dedicated steps. 1) With some texts describing the shapes of clothes, the given human pose is first translated to a human parsing map. 2) The final human image is then generated by providing the system with more attributes about the textures of clothes. Specifically, to model the diversity of clothing textures, we build a hierarchical texture-aware codebook that stores multi-scale neural representations for each type of texture. The codebook at the coarse level includes the structural representations of textures, while the codebook at the fine level focuses on the details of textures. To make use of the learned hierarchical codebook to synthesize desired images, a diffusion-based transformer sampler with mixture of experts is firstly employed to sample indices from the coarsest level of the codebook, which then is used to predict the indices of the codebook at finer levels. The predicted indices at different levels are translated to human images by the decoder learned accompanied with hierarchical codebooks. The use of mixture-of-experts allows for the generated image conditioned on the fine-grained text input. The prediction for finer level indices refines the quality of clothing textures. Extensive quantitative and qualitative evaluations demonstrate that our proposed Text2Human framework can generate more diverse and realistic human images compared to state-of-the-art methods. Our project page is https://yumingj.github.io/projects/Text2Human.html. Code and pretrained models are available at https://github.com/yumingj/Text2Human.

- https://github.com/yumingj/Text2Human



### Sprite-from-Sprite: Cartoon Animation Decomposition with Self-supervised Sprite Estimation

We present an approach to decompose cartoon animation videos into a set of "sprites" --- the basic units of digital cartoons that depict the contents and transforms of each animated object. The sprites in real-world cartoons are unique: artists may draw arbitrary sprite animations for expressiveness, where the animated content is often complicated, irregular, and challenging; alternatively, artists may also reduce their workload by tweening and adjusting sprites, or even reuse static sprites, in which case the transformations are relatively regular and simple. Based on these observations, we propose a sprite decomposition framework using Pixel Multilayer Perceptrons (Pixel MLPs) where the estimation of each sprite is conditioned on and guided by all other sprites. In this way, once those relatively regular and simple sprites are resolved, the decomposition of the remaining "challenging" sprites can simplified and eased with the guidance of other sprites. We call this method "sprite-from-sprite" cartoon decomposition. We study ablative architectures of our framework, and the user study demonstrates that our results are the most preferred ones in 19/20 cases.

- [lllyasviel/ToonDecompose: A project to decompose the components in cartoon animations. (github.com)](https://github.com/lllyasviel/ToonDecompose)



### Make Your Own Sprites: Aliasing-Aware and Cell-Controllable Pixelization

Pixel art is a unique art style with the appearance of low resolution images. In this paper, we propose a data-driven pixelization method that can produce sharp and crisp cell effects with controllable cell sizes. Our approach overcomes the limitation of existing learning-based methods in cell size control by introducing a reference pixel art to explicitly regularize the cell structure. In particular, the cell structure features of the reference pixel art are used as an auxiliary input for the pixelization process, and for measuring the style similarity between the generated result and the reference pixel art. Furthermore, we disentangle the pixelization process into specific cell-aware and aliasing-aware stages, mitigating the ambiguities in joint learning of cell size, aliasing effect, and color assignment. To train our model, we construct a dedicated pixel art dataset and augment it with different cell sizes and different degrees of anti-aliasing effects. Extensive experiments demonstrate its superior performance over state-of-the-arts in terms of cell sharpness and perceptual expressiveness. We also show promising results of video game pixelization for the first time. Code and dataset are available at https://github.com/WuZongWei6/Pixelization.

- https://github.com/WuZongWei6/Pixelization.



### Text2Light: Zero-Shot Text-Driven HDR Panorama Generation

High-quality HDRIs (High Dynamic Range Images), typically HDR panoramas, are one of the most popular ways to create photorealistic lighting and 360-degree reflections of 3D scenes in graphics. Given the difficulty of capturing HDRIs, a versatile and controllable generative model is highly desired, where layman users can intuitively control the generation process. However, existing state-of-the-art methods still struggle to synthesize high-quality panoramas for complex scenes. In this work, we propose a zero-shot text-driven framework, **Text2Light**, to generate 4K+ resolution HDRIs without paired training data. Given a free-form text as the description of the scene, we synthesize the corresponding HDRI with two dedicated steps: **1**) text-driven panorama generation in low dynamic range (LDR) and low resolution (LR), and **2**) super-resolution inverse tone mapping to scale up the LDR panorama both in resolution and dynamic range. Specifically, to achieve zero-shot text-driven panorama generation, we first build dual codebooks as the discrete representation for diverse environmental textures. Then, driven by the pre-trained Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) model, a text-conditioned global sampler learns to sample holistic semantics from the global codebook according to the input text. Furthermore, a structure-aware local sampler learns to synthesize LDR panoramas patch-by-patch, guided by holistic semantics. To achieve super-resolution inverse tone mapping, we derive a continuous representation of 360-degree imaging from the LDR panorama as a set of structured latent codes anchored to the sphere. This continuous representation enables a versatile module to upscale the resolution and dynamic range simultaneously. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superior capability of Text2Light in generating high-quality HDR panoramas. In addition, we show the feasibility of our work in realistic rendering and immersive VR.

- [FrozenBurning/Text2Light: [SIGGRAPH Asia 2022\] Text2Light: Zero-Shot Text-Driven HDR Panorama Generation (github.com)](https://github.com/FrozenBurning/Text2Light)
